# Using Deep Learning to Track Genre Trends in the Music Industry
## Backgroud
The music industry is, well, <ins>the</ins> music industry, with billions of dollars of revenue per year in the US alone. In order to cater to its audience, music is labeled as being part of a genre such as Pop, Jazz, R&B, Country, Latin, etc. The issue with these classifications is that they are essentially moving targets; what defines a genre in a certain year is prone to change in subsequent years. An example of this is the Michael Jackson hit "Billie Jean", which won a Grammy as an R&B song. Fortunately, these trends are often cyclical and involve movement toward and away from other existing genres. Is this movement predictable? This project aims to break down songs into components of genres using data science, and see if there are any trends that could be insightful.
## Design
This project uses the GTZAN data set for music, which contains 100 audio samples of 10 different music genres, for a total of 1000 examples. Each .wav file can be represented by a single 1D vector that has 22,050 values per second. This project uses the librosa library to convert the 1D vector into 2D vectors with more order to them, which are then read into a convolutional neural network in order to predict the genre based on the original waveform. The most useful of the transformations will then have their neural networks merged in order to make a stronger prediction. Part of the original scope of the project was to use the model to distinguish the different influences of the 10 genres from the model on modern music; unfortunately, that aspect was never realized.
